Test on Lab Machine. - 17/09/2019
------------
Alogorithm - reading 18/09/2019
Take a problem statement and develop a solution. 
1.3 what is computer science. 
a computer scientist's goal is to develope an algorithm, a step-by-step list of instructions for solving any instance of problems that might arise. 

Computer science can be thought of as the study of algorithms.
computer science is the study of problems that are and that are not computable.
Solutions are considered independent from the machine. 

The study of abstractions. to separate logical and pysical perspectives.
These functions are also referred to as the interface. 
The procedural abstraction
---------------
1.4 What is programming?
Programming is the process of taking an algorithm and encoding it into a notation, a programming language, so that it can be executed by a computer. 
The important first step is the need to have the solution.
Without an algorithm, there can be no program.
Programming is the way we create a represenstation for our solutions.
Algorithms describe the solutions to a problem in terms of the data needed to represent the problem instance and the set of steps necessary to produce the intended results.
Programming languages must provide a notational way to reprensent both the process and the data. 
To this end, language provide control structs and data types. 

Control constructs allow algorithmic steps to be repreneted in a convient yet unambiguous way.
1) Perform sequential processing; 2) selection for decision-making. 3)iteration for repetitive control. 

data types tajt provide an interpretation for this binary data so that we can think about the data in erms that make sense with respect to the problem being solved. 

data type for integers or provides a desription of the operations. 
----------------
1.5 Why study data structures and abstract data types?
Create models of the problem domain.
Data abstraction-
An abstract data type (ADT) is a logical descirption of how we vide the data and the operations that are allowed without regard to how they will be implemented. 
This level of abstraction, we are creating encapsulation around the data. 
hiding the details of implementation from user's view. 

The implementation of an abstract data type, often referred to as a data strcuture, will requrie that we provide a physical view of the data using some collections of programming constructs and primitive data types.

Implementation-independent view of data. 
-----------------
1.6 Why study algorithm?
We learn by seeing others solve problems and by solving problems by ourselves. 
As we learn algorithms, we can learn analysis techniques that allow us to compare and contrast solutions based on solely on their characteristics. 
-----------------
1.8 Getting start with data. 
Data is the focal point of the problem-solving process.
We define a class to be a description of what the data look like (the state) and what the data can do (the behaviour)
Classes are analogous to abstract data types because a user of a class only sees the states and behaviour of a data item.

